now David assembled at Jerusalem all the
leaders of Israel the officers of the
tribes and the captains of the divisions
who served the King the captains over
thousands and captain's over hundreds
and the stewards over all the substance
and possessions of the king and of his
sons with the officials the valiant man
and all the mighty men of valor when
King David rose to his feet and said
hear me my brethren and my people I had
it in my heart to build a house of rest
for the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord
and for the footstool of our God and had
made preparations to build it but God
said to me you shall not build a house
for my name because you have been a man
of war and have shed blood however the
Lord God of Israel chose me above all
the house of my father to be king over
Israel for ever for he has chosen Judah
to be the ruler and of the house of
Judah the house of my father and among
the sons of my father he was pleased
with me to make me king over all Israel
and of all my sons for the Lord has
given me many sons he has chosen my son
Solomon to sit on the throne of the
kingdom of the Lord over Israel now he
said to me it is your son Solomon
who shall build my house and my courts
for I have chosen him to be my son and I
will be his father
moreover I will establish his kingdom
forever if he is steadfast to observe my
commandments and my judgments as it is
this day now therefore in the sight of
all Israel the Assembly of the Lord and
in the hearing of our God be careful to
seek out all the commandments of the
Lord your God that you may possess this
good land and leave it as an inheritance
for your children after you forever as
for you my son Solomon
no the god of your father and serve him
with a loyal heart and with a willing
mind for the Lord searches all hearts
and understands all the intent of the
thoughts if you seek him he will be
found by you but if you forsake him he
will cast you off forever consider now
for the Lord has chosen you to build a
house for the sanctuary be strong and do
it then David gave his son Solomon the
plans for the vestibule its houses its
Treasuries its upper chambers its inner
chambers and the place of the mercy seat
and the plans for all that he had by the
Spirit of the courts of the house of the
Lord of all the chambers all around of
the Treasuries of the house of God and
are the Treasuries for the dedicated
things also for the division of the
priests and the Levites for all the work
of the service of the house of the Lord
and for all the articles of service in
the house of the Lord he gave gold by
wait for things of gold for all articles
used in every kind of service also
silver for all articles of silver by
weight for all articles used in every
kind of service the wait for the
lampstands of gold and their lamps of
gold by weight for each lamp stand and
its lamps for the lamp stands of silver
by weight for the lamp stand and it's
lamps according to the use of each lamp
stand and by weight he gave gold for the
tables of the showbread for each table
and silver for the tables of silver also
pure gold for the forks the basins the
pitchers of pure gold and the golden
bowls he gave gold by weight for every
bowl
and for the silver bowls silver by
weight for every bowl and refined gold
by weight for the altar of incense and
for the construction of the chariot that
is the gold cherubim that spread their
wings and overshadowed the Ark of the
Covenant of the Lord all this the Lord
made me understand in writing by his
hand upon me all the works of these
plans be strong and of good courage and
do it
do not fear nor be dismayed for the Lord
God my God will be with you he will not
leave you nor forsake you until you have
finished all the work for the service of
the house of the Lord here are the
divisions of the priests and the Levites
for all the service of the house of God
and every willing craftsman will be with
you for all manner of workmanship for
every kind of service also the leaders
and all the people will be completely at
your command